hey guys this is part of a series of
relatively short focused videos giving
you practical advice advice you may not
want to hear but advice that's actually
useful about teaching English in China I
teach at the university level
she teaches kids but I've been involved
with I've been involved with training
right preparing for do her job I had
both experiences in the last year really
and there will be a playlist somewhere
you can look around this video and
figure it out but there will be a number
of other videos of this kind on this
channel if what you're hearing seems
useful to you we're gonna deal with two
topics in this video grading and
classroom discipline so I think a lot of
people just don't they don't think
sympathetically about their bosses and
the administrators in the university
that work for if you're in university
level English teaching or in the school
that they work for I was in a situation
just a couple of months ago where after
my semester wrapped up I got a phone
call from someone higher up in the
university saying look this student
failed and she's very unhappy we got to
do something to help them I do think
that when that administrator started the
phone call I think she assumed she was
just gonna bully me into raising the
grade and there were a lot of kind of
you'll see anecdotes about that on the
internet but I responded in a totally
principled way I said you can look at
the list of grades for that class the
majority of people writing the same exam
got over 80% there were a lot of people
who got grades in the 90s if that exams
the exam was not too hard and this
particular student got 8% eighth not
like it's not a situation when students
getting 49 and somebody's making a phone
call saying could you bump it up from 49
to 50 once the student passes know this
is eight and it was interesting but you
know I I stood my ground and total the
principal way and the other person I
think she's also a principal person she
just hadn't really thought it through
she was you know sometimes people just
have the attitude of oh there's a leak
in the wall stop the leak they're not
really thinking through what the problem
solution she you know cuz the way this
professor said it is we have to do
something to help her we have to do some
help soon I said I agree and what can we
do help her you know well just say that
back I'm not gonna raise a grade from 8
percent the 50 percent that's ridiculous
so I agree with you her
level of English is way too low to be in
this course she can't complete the
program and I know when they graduate
this this course they're supposed to be
English teachers themselves it's
supposed to be a high enough level that
they go from being students to being
teachers in one year so I said so what
do want to can we set up remedial
classes can we set up special sessions
look you know I was offering to use some
of my own time and I was asking this
professor she can you say do you want a
set of special special lessons help the
student I think was pretty obvious from
the other end of the phone that she
didn't you know what I mean so this is
my first thing about grading a lot of
people come into this with cultural
stereotypes and South Korea is really
infamous for that if people like
literally handing you a red envelope
full of money to raise someone's great
or putting pressure on you or something
I think it's just important to think
about the other people in the equation
what they're trying to accomplish and
what you're trying to accomplish for me
I do grade generously when I assign
grades to students I do try to be fair
learn the other hand I actually do not
judge the student based on their level
of ability when they come into the
classroom so in a sense that's that's an
uneven scale that's making it easier for
the students for the lower level so if I
have a student who can just barely speak
English who's much lower than the
average of the students and they come in
and give an oral presentation they
prepared well they did a good original
written composition they tried their
hardest that were trying to pronounce
the English clearly they made it they
made a good effort relative to their
level of ability they can get an 80 or
90 from me no problem and another
student is at a very high level of
ability in a sense I'm kind of
normalizing that where you start out you
could be a very high level ability and
make no effort I have just I have just
one student like that this year I have
one student she's at a high level of
ability she's the one who went to the
provincial competition so the other
professors picked her out as being
especially good too and I think that
what's her head but she would come in
with like five words jot down or no prep
at all no notes and would just kind of
improvise some crap for her formal
presentation for a formal oral exam it
was like look you may be better off than
half the other students but you know now
this you didn't really answer the
question you're not really living up to
the criteria for the the assignments so
you're getting a lower grade but I do
rate generously because again
I don't gain anything by giving students
low grades and you have to ask yourself
what are you calibrating your grading
for what are you trying to measure one
of the big differences so she's teaching
children I'm teaching university
students one of the big difference is
how much time and effort you're putting
into grading into evaluation so you want
to design your whole course so that's
effective so you're not wasting your own
time because there's no point having a
system where you're spending a lot of
time making a measurement that's not not
of any use to anyone it's not even used
to students not even used to you but
yeah fundamentally if I can give
students a bunch of grades in the 80s
and 90s I'm delighted to do that and I
recognize I'm different from other
professors a lot of professors come into
this with their own emotional damage
from their own experience as a student
whether it was a high school university
they feel like oh well if I could only
get grades in the 70s when I was your
age and university you should only be
able to get grades in seven they have
some like preconceived notion of what an
A+ is and you got a you gotta leave that
behind the dorm
you like fundamentally what I look at
the assignment I gave them and I do give
very specific assignments so there's a
list of things you know so they have to
give a five-minute presentation they
have to speak on this this this and this
and I say look if they did everything
the assignment asked to them they made a
good effort then why shouldn't they get
a hundred percent I don't give a hundred
percent that often but like grades like
97 like you know they did everything in
the assignment they made a couple
mistakes or left out a couple things why
shouldn't that be a grade in the 90s and
old ultimately that's one of the ways
you as a teacher can help them write
assignments where it's really clear what
its gonna mean to pass and what it's
gonna mean to fail if you you know this
assignment tells you what to do and they
can do it and they can understand it and
then you know I mean if if they totally
fail to live up to the assignment they
get a low grade but then most of the
time you're gonna be giving them
positive grades that again
I think should reflect basically their
effort and execution
it shouldn't reflect the level of
ability they're at before they came to
your class anyway there's there's no
point trying to measure that you can but
there's no other if you do that then
your grading scheme is just gonna be
unequal and get more unequal then it's
just whoever had a better education in
high school before they became your
student is getting a better grade
alright enough about grading the second
top of this video is class discipline
which you also have to deal with
um I had one semester here so I did two
semesters to deflect Nemec year in the
first semester I really forced everyone
to not use their cell phones and to pay
attention pay attention to me and to pay
attention to the student speaking when
students were doing presentations and in
some ways that was very positive for a
couple of the students it was traumatic
because students who were breaking
classroom discipline I would throw them
out of the class normally I would do
that there they're all female students
all the problems for female students
never with a male student so the females
didn't have her cell phone and purse
sitting on her desk and she'd be playing
with her cell phone and talking to a
friend and laughing or something being
disruptive as well as not paying
attention I would just take the purse
and a cell phone and put in the hallway
and say look if you don't want to study
you don't have to be here you know you
don't have to come to class and one
student especially was really
emotionally upset by that and you know
she wrote me an apology letter later and
stuff it was a big deal to her you know
other students react in different ways I
mean ultimately I don't care like I'm
just trying to control the class and
conduct the class and in some ways that
kind of harsh discipline was really
positive I can say for the mediocre
students it meant they learned more and
at a more positive classroom experience
because otherwise and what I did this
semester by contrast - I said to them
look I don't need to force you guys to
pay attention if you want to use your
cell phones you can and what I've done
this semester is I put the desks in the
center of the lecture hall into a circle
held with my class of 40 every every
class there were nine students that are
selected to sit in that circle and
they're doing conversation practice they
are getting more of my time and
attention and I'm getting more of their
time and attention and then for the
other students I'm not enforcing class
disappoint if they want to sit there and
use their cell phone I'm ignoring that
this semester but obviously not for the
nine that are in the in the inner circle
they should they should sharpen up and
benefit more from the educational
exercise we're doing in that class that
day so and that method I've got to tell
you it has advantages it really does
we're using class time way more
effectively I'm not spending my time and
attention being punitive to other
students I get to be more positive and
encouraging but for the mediocre
students it's a lot worse because they
really become
victims of their own limited attention
span and they'd be getting a lot more
out of the class if they just stood if
they just sat there gazing at the
chalkboard or gazing at whoever speaking
whether it's me speaking of the student
even they were just passively listening
to the English being spoken they get a
lot more out of it and I have a couple
students where I recognize them I've
known them for many months now where
last semester they were really bright
eyed and paying attention they were
really good students in class and
participate in this semester they're
they're victims of their own short
attention span some of them have the
phone open Oh class and more commonly
some of them get twenty minutes into the
class or even sixty minutes into the
class and then turn to their phone
they've run out of they run out of gas
through enough attention and in some
ways I can respect that
I don't hate or demonize the students do
pay attention but it really is a big
choice the bottom line is if you had two
teachers working together you know two
in tandem you could maintain a hundred
percent discipline when you have one
teacher working alone with 40 students
then it's really an either/or choice
because if I'm spending my attention
being punitive and enforcing discipline
and making people pay attention and
these are these are basically adult
students they're 20 and 21 years old you
know and again even saying them look
either study or get out you know either
either participate positively or get it
pay attention or get out then I'm not
doing the other things I can be doing as
a teacher she teaches more in the
Japanese style which is to say there's
one teacher and one translator so one
native speaker of English one native
speaker of Chinese that's the way the
jet program works although in the jet
program the native Japanese speaker has
a much more active role but even then I
mean sometimes you can win and sometimes
you can't you have some class of
students that are excellent but we had
one experience where I we had taught the
lesson before we taught one lesson with
one class of kids and it went great and
again it's not about how entertaining is
so we in tandem taught I think it was
you me and a translator I forget if it's
translator Nam it was just you of me but
with two of us we taught this lesson
these kids and went great you know they
recognized the educational value of it
like the N if it was a good lesson they
participated they were engaged they
practiced the vocabulary and sentence
structure items and then we taught the
same lesson to a different class maybe
the next day maybe just a few hours
later or something
and it was just awful the kids were just
brats and they didn't pay attention and
so on and I I can speak enough Chinese I
was saying to them in Chinese look in
this whole province there were like four
native speakers of English that's maybe
that's generous you know they're they're
like eight white people but we might be
the only ones who speak much at first I
think we might be the only native
speakers of English in this whole
province there are some Dutch people who
speak English okay but they're not
native speakers how much oh no there's
one of the couples case yeah there are
four they're two Americans heroes are
front oh there are four white people who
speak English in the this whole province
in dong and I said look they're only for
foreigners you're speaking you got two
of them in this classroom right now
we're trying to help you this is really
an opportunity for you and you're
throwing it away you know what I mean
and it's really a shame when the whole
class is bad when the behavior is bad
because some of those kids are capable
of good work yes some of them just don't
want to learn some of them just don't
want to be there and I sympathize I know
what it's like as a student to be forced
into a position don't appeal but it's
really a shame when the class as a whole
when one part is dragging down the rest
and so on and that is as I say that's
really the question how much of your
knee energy you're going to put in three
weeks and that's basically negative
policing the students and trying to
compel them to pay attention or not
misbehave and how much for energy you
can put into something positive creative
and really educational yeah in your
situation at the college you can kick
them out but that's true in my school
you know the parents are paying for
their kids to be there right no that's
true say if you don't want to be here
leave it's like you know the students
are supposed to be there were kind of
their guardians for the for this for
these hours that they're at school so
yes I think I have said that to them
though like you know like if you don't
wanna be a well yeah because they could
sit in the corner or something you know
if you just want to play video games on
your phone get out like you can go sit
over there they can't they can't leave
the school thing but still yeah I have
said that that kind of thing before
yeah anyway so I gotta say both of these
things both on grading and on school
discipline I think my perspectives a
little bit different I don't see the job
of a teacher as being an entertainer I'm
when I'm teaching I really
I'm about communicating these vocabulary
items the sentence structure whatever it
is we're working on today and sometimes
I do a lot of I do a lot of lessons that
have historical content so there you
know I did one lesson with your kids
when you were absent and your boss was
absent she called me in last minute to
fill in and I taught them about the
history of the English Industrial
Revolution the Industrial Revolution in
England and then that lesson again it's
not like the kids were delighted they're
like oh wow like this is a good lesson
like thank you I'm like they learned a
lot it was interesting it was engaging
and you know we did simple stuff like
the word coal CO al and what that is the
version of the coal and industry and
this kind of thing it was engaging for
them but I'm not like a clown I'm not
there to make them happy I think a lot
of teachers do have an attitude that
they're there to make these kids happy
and that then your attitude is something
totally different I can feel confident
that what I'm teaching is worthwhile
when I have a lesson like that it's good
in terms of vocab grammar and also it
has some kind of historical point it's
something else in
even if the kids are brats even if they
don't respond positively and you know
the other side of it is it was to make
your kids happy if what you want to do
is make people happy
why why are you being a why are you why
are you so reluctant to give them an 85
you don't mean why you reluctant to give
them high grades giving them high grades
could have a positive impact on their
lives can pause them motivate them and
so on design your assignments so that it
is possible for the best students to get
hundred-percent design your assignments
in a way that's rewarding them in the
most obvious way that doesn't make a
clown out of you that doesn't trivialize
what you're doing you know if you set up
the obstacle course of the assignment in
a way that they really can succeed and
reward them without grades